.ig
. manual page for shadowsocks-libev
.
. Copyright (c) 2012-2015, by: Max Lv
. All rights reserved.
.
. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
. under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or
. any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
. with no Front-Cover Texts, no Back-Cover Texts, and with the following
. Invariant Sections (and any sub-sections therein):
.   all .ig sections, including this one
.   STUPID TRICKS Sampler
.   AUTHOR
.
. A copy of the Free Documentation License is included in the section
. entitled "GNU Free Documentation License".
.
..
\#                          - these two are for chuckles, makes great grammar
.ds Lo  \fBss-local\fR
.ds Re  \fBss-redir\fR
.ds Se  \fBss-server\fR
.ds Tu  \fBss-tunnel\fR
.ds Ma  \fBss-manager\fR
.ds Me  \fBShadowsocks-libev\fR
.
.TH "SHADOWSOCKS-LIBEV" "8" "September 10, 2015" "SHADOWSOCKS-LIBEV"
.SH NAME
shadowsocks-libev \- a lightweight and secure socks5 proxy

.SH SYNOPSIS
\*(Lo|\*(Re|\*(Se|\*(Tu|\*(Ma
    [\fB\-s\fR \fIserver_host\fR]     [\fB\-p\fR \fIserver_port\fR]
    [\fB\-l\fR \fIlocal_port\fR]      [\fB\-k\fR \fIpassword\fR]
    [\fB\-m\fR \fIencrypt_method\fR]  [\fB\-f\fR \fIpid_file\fR]
    [\fB\-t\fR \fItimeout\fR]         [\fB\-c\fR \fIconfig_file\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\*(Me is a lightweight and secure socks5 proxy. It is a port of the original
shadowsocks created by clowwindy. \*(Me is written in pure C and takes advantage
of \fBlibev\fP to achieve both high performance and low resource consumption.
.PP
\*(Me consists of five components. One is \*(Se(1) that runs on a remote server
to provide secured tunnel service. \*(Lo(1) and \*(Re(1) are clients on your local
machines to proxy TCP traffic. \*(Tu(1) is a tool for local port forwarding.
.PP
While \*(Lo(1) works as a standard socks5 proxy, \*(Re(1) works as a transparent proxy
and requires netfilter's NAT module. For more information, check out the example
section.
.PP
\*(Ma(1) is a controller for multi-user management and traffic statistics, using UNIX
domain socket to talk with \*(Se(1). Also, it provides a UNIX domain socket or IP based
API for other software. About the details of this API, please refer to the protocol
section.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-s \fIserver_host\fP
Set the server's hostname or IP.
.TP
.B \-p \fIserver_port\fP
Set the server's port number.
.TP
.B \-l \fIlocal_port\fP
Set the local port number.
.TP
.B \-k \fIpassword\fP
Set the password. The server and the client should use the same password.
.TP
.B \-m \fIencrypt_method\fP
Set the cipher.

\*(Me accepts 18 different ciphers: table, rc4, rc4-md5,
aes-128-cfb, aes-192-cfb, aes-256-cfb, bf-cfb, camellia-128-cfb,
camellia-192-cfb, camellia-256-cfb, cast5-cfb, des-cfb, idea-cfb, rc2-cfb,
seed-cfb, salsa20, chacha20 and chacha20-ietf. The default cipher is \fItable\fP.

If built with PolarSSL or custom OpenSSL libraries, some of these ciphers may
not work.
.TP
.B \-f \fIpid_file\fP
Start shadowsocks as a daemon with specific pid file.
.TP
.B \-t \fItimeout\fP
Set the socket timeout in seconds. The default value is 10.
.TP
.B \-c \fIconfig_file\fP
Use a configuration file.
.TP
.B \-n \fInofile\fP
Specify max number of open files.

Only available on Linux.
.TP
.B \-i \fIinterface\fP
Specify network interface to bind.

Not available in redir mode.
.TP
.B \-b \fIlocal_address\fP
Specify local address to bind.

Not available in server mode.
.TP
.B \-a \fIuser_name\fP
Run as a specific user.
.TP
.B \-u
Enable UDP relay.
TPROXY is required in redir mode.
.TP
.B \-U
Enable UDP relay and disable TCP relay.
Not available in local mode.
.TP
.B \-A
Enable onetime authentication.
.TP
.B \-L \fIaddr\fR:\fIport\fP
Specify destination server address and port for local port forwarding.

Only available in tunnel mode.
.TP
.B \-d \fIaddr\fP
Setup name servers for internal DNS resolver (libudns). The default server
is fetched from /etc/resolv.conf.

Only available in server mode.
.TP
.B \--fast-open
Enable TCP fast open.

Only available in local and server mode, with Linux kernel > 3.7.0.
.TP
.B \--acl \fIacl_config\fP
Enable ACL (Access Control List) and specify config file.
Only available in local and server mode.
.TP
.B \--manager-address \fIpath_to_unix_domain\fP
Specify UNIX domain socket address.
Only available in server and manager mode.
.TP
.B \--executable \fIpath_to_server_executable\fP
Specify the executable path of ss-server.
Only available in manager mode.
.TP
.B \-v
Enable verbose mode.

.SH EXAMPLE
\*(Re requires netfilter's NAT function. Here is an example:

    # Create new chain
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -N SHADOWSOCKS

    # Ignore your shadowsocks server's addresses
    # It's very IMPORTANT, just be careful.
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A SHADOWSOCKS -d 123.123.123.123 -j RETURN

    # Ignore LANs and any other addresses you'd like to bypass the proxy
    # See Wikipedia and RFC5735 for full list of reserved networks.
    # See ashi009/bestroutetb for a highly optimized CHN route list.
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A SHADOWSOCKS -d 0.0.0.0/8 -j RETURN
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A SHADOWSOCKS -d 10.0.0.0/8 -j RETURN
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A SHADOWSOCKS -d 127.0.0.0/8 -j RETURN
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A SHADOWSOCKS -d 169.254.0.0/16 -j RETURN
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A SHADOWSOCKS -d 172.16.0.0/12 -j RETURN
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A SHADOWSOCKS -d 192.168.0.0/16 -j RETURN
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A SHADOWSOCKS -d 224.0.0.0/4 -j RETURN
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A SHADOWSOCKS -d 240.0.0.0/4 -j RETURN

    # Anything else should be redirected to shadowsocks's local port
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A SHADOWSOCKS -p tcp -j REDIRECT --to-ports 12345

    # Add any UDP rules
    root@Wrt:~# ip rule add fwmark 0x01/0x01 table 100
    root@Wrt:~# ip route add local 0.0.0.0/0 dev lo table 100
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t mangle -A SHADOWSOCKS -p udp --dport 53 -j TPROXY --on-port 12345 --tproxy-mark 0x01/0x01

    # Apply the rules
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING -p tcp -j SHADOWSOCKS
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t mangle -A PREROUTING -j SHADOWSOCKS

    # Start the shadowsocks-redir
    root@Wrt:~# ss-redir -u -c /etc/config/shadowsocks.json -f /var/run/shadowsocks.pid

.SH PROTOCOL
\*(Ma(1) provides several APIs through UDP protocol:

    Send UDP commands in the following format to the manager-address provided to \*(Ma(1).

        command: [JSON data]

    To add a port:

        add: {"server_port": 8001, "password":"7cd308cc059"}

    To remove a port:

        remove: {"server_port": 8001}

    To receive a pong:

        ping

    Then \*(Ma(1) will send back the traffic statistics:

        stat: {"8001":11370}

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR \*(Lo (1),
.BR \*(Se (1),
.BR \*(Tu (1),
.BR \*(Re (1),
.BR \*(Ma (1),
.BR iptables (8),
/etc/shadowsocks-libev/config.json
.br
.SH AUTHOR
shadowsocks was created by clowwindy <clowwindy42@gmail.com> and
shadowsocks-libev was maintained by Max Lv <max.c.lv@gmail.com> and Linus Yang
<laokongzi@gmail.com>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Max Lv <max.c.lv@gmail.com>.
.PP
The manual pages were rearranged by hosiet <073plan@gmail.com>.
