.ig
. manual page for shadowsocks-libev
.
. Copyright (c) 2012-2016, by: Max Lv
. All rights reserved.
.
. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
. under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or
. any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
. with no Front-Cover Texts, no Back-Cover Texts, and with the following
. Invariant Sections (and any sub-sections therein):
.   all .ig sections, including this one
.   STUPID TRICKS Sampler
.   AUTHOR
.
. A copy of the Free Documentation License is included in the section
. entitled "GNU Free Documentation License".
.
..
\#                          - these two are for chuckles, makes great grammar
.ds Lo  \fBss-local\fR
.ds Re  \fBss-redir\fR
.ds Se  \fBss-server\fR
.ds Tu  \fBss-tunnel\fR
.ds Ma  \fBss-manager\fR
.ds Na  \fBss-nat\fR
.ds Me  \fBShadowsocks-libev\fR
.
.TH "SS-NAT" "1" "May 26, 2016" "SHADOWSOCKS-LIBEV"
.SH NAME
ss-nat \- helper script to setup NAT rules for transparent proxy

.SH SYNOPSIS
\*(Na
    [\fB\-ouUfh\fR]
    [\fB\-s\fR \fIserver_ip\fR]     [\fB\-S\fR \fIserver_ip\fR]      [\fB\-l\fR \fIlocal_port\fR]
    [\fB\-L\fR \fIlocal_port\fR]    [\fB\-i\fR \fIip_list_file\fR]   [\fB\-a\fR \fIlan_ips\fR]
    [\fB\-b\fR \fIwan_ips\fR]       [\fB\-w\fR \fIwan_ips\fR]        [\fB\-e\fR \fIextra_options\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\*(Me is a lightweight and secure socks5 proxy. It is a port of the original
shadowsocks created by clowwindy. \*(Me is written in pure C and takes advantage
of \fBlibev\fP to achieve both high performance and low resource consumption.
.PP
\*(Na(1) sets up NAT rules for \*(Re(1) to provide traffic redirection. It
requires netfilter's NAT module and \fBiptables\fR(8). For more information,
check out \fBshadowsocks-libev\fR(8) and the following \fBEXAMPLE\fR section.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-s \fIserver_ip\fP
IP address of shadowsocks remote server
.TP
.B \-l \fIlocal_port\fP
Port number of shadowsocks local server
.TP
.B \-S \fIserver_ip\fP
IP address of shadowsocks remote UDP server
.TP
.B \-L \fIlocal_port\fP
Port number of shadowsocks local UDP server
.TP
.B \-i \fIip_list_file\fP
a file content is bypassed ip list
.TP
.B \-a \fIlan_ips\fP
LAN IP of access control, need a prefix to define access control mode
.TP
.B \-b \fIwan_ips\fP
WAN IP of will be bypassed
.TP
.B \-w \fIwan_ips\fP
WAN IP of will be forwarded
.TP
.B \-e \fIextra_options\fP
Extra options for iptables
.TP
.B \-o
Apply the rules to the OUTPUT chain
.TP
.B \-u
Enable udprelay mode, TPROXY is required
.TP
.B \-U
Enable udprelay mode, using different IP and ports for TCP and UDP
.TP
.B \-f
Flush the rules
.TP
.B \-h
Show this help message and exit
.TP

.SH EXAMPLE
\*(Na requires \fBiptables\fR(8). Here is an example:

.nf
    # Enable NAT rules for shadowsocks,
    # with both TCP and UDP redirection enabled,
    # and applied for both PREROUTING and OUTPUT chains
    root@Wrt:~# ss-nat -s 192.168.1.100 -l 1080 -u -o
    
    # Disable and flush all NAT rules for shadowsocks
    root@Wrt:~# ss-nat -f
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR \*(Lo (1),
.BR \*(Se (1),
.BR \*(Tu (1),
.BR \*(Ma (1),
.BR shadowsocks-libev (8),
.BR iptables (8),
/etc/shadowsocks-libev/config.json
.br
.SH AUTHOR
shadowsocks was created by clowwindy <clowwindy42@gmail.com> and
shadowsocks-libev was maintained by Max Lv <max.c.lv@gmail.com> and Linus Yang
<laokongzi@gmail.com>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Max Lv <max.c.lv@gmail.com>.
.PP
The manual pages were rearranged by hosiet <073plan@gmail.com>.
