.ig
. manual page for shadowsocks-libev
.
. Copyright (c) 2012-2016, by: Max Lv
. All rights reserved.
.
. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
. under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or
. any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
. with no Front-Cover Texts, no Back-Cover Texts, and with the following
. Invariant Sections (and any sub-sections therein):
.   all .ig sections, including this one
.   STUPID TRICKS Sampler
.   AUTHOR
.
. A copy of the Free Documentation License is included in the section
. entitled "GNU Free Documentation License".
.
..
\#                          - these two are for chuckles, makes great grammar
.ds Lo  \fBss-local\fR
.ds Re  \fBss-redir\fR
.ds Se  \fBss-server\fR
.ds Tu  \fBss-tunnel\fR
.ds Ma  \fBss-manager\fR
.ds Me  \fBShadowsocks-libev\fR
.
.TH "SS-REDIR" "1" "April 19, 2016" "SHADOWSOCKS-LIBEV"
.SH NAME
ss-redir \- shadowsocks client as transparent proxy, libev port

.SH SYNOPSIS
\*(Re
    [\fB\-AuUv\fR]          [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\--help\fR]
    [\fB\-s\fR \fIserver_host\fR] [\fB\-p\fR \fIserver_port\fR]    [\fB\-l\fR \fIlocal_port\fR]
    [\fB\-k\fR \fIpassword\fR]    [\fB\-m\fR \fIencrypt_method\fR] [\fB\-f\fR \fIpid_file\fR]
    [\fB\-t\fR \fItimeout\fR]     [\fB\-c\fR \fIconfig_file\fR]    [\fB\-b\fR \fIlocal_address\fR]
    [\fB\-a\fR \fIuser_name\fR]   [\fB\-n\fR \fInofile\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\*(Me is a lightweight and secure socks5 proxy. It is a port of the original
shadowsocks created by clowwindy. \*(Me is written in pure C and takes advantage
of \fBlibev\fP to achieve both high performance and low resource consumption.
.PP
\*(Me consists of five components. \*(Re(1) works as a transparent proxy on
local machines to proxy TCP traffic and requires netfilter's NAT module. For
more information, check out \fBshadowsocks-libev\fR(8) and the following
\fBEXAMPLE\fR section.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-s \fIserver_host\fP
Set the server's hostname or IP.
.TP
.B \-p \fIserver_port\fP
Set the server's port number.
.TP
.B \-l \fIlocal_port\fP
Set the local port number.
.TP
.B \-k \fIpassword\fP
Set the password. The server and the client should use the same password.
.TP
.B \-m \fIencrypt_method\fP
Set the cipher.

\*(Me accepts 18 different ciphers: table, rc4, rc4-md5, aes-128-cfb,
aes-192-cfb, aes-256-cfb, bf-cfb, camellia-128-cfb, camellia-192-cfb,
camellia-256-cfb, cast5-cfb, des-cfb, idea-cfb, rc2-cfb, seed-cfb, salsa20,
chacha20 and chacha20-ietf. The default cipher is \fItable\fP.

If built with PolarSSL or custom OpenSSL libraries, some of these ciphers may
not work.
.TP
.B \-a \fIuser_name\fP
Run as a specific user.
.TP
.B \-f \fIpid_file\fP
Start shadowsocks as a daemon with specific pid file.
.TP
.B \-t \fItimeout\fP
Set the socket timeout in seconds. The default value is 60.
.TP
.B \-c \fIconfig_file\fP
Use a configuration file.
.TP
.B \-n \fInumber\fP
Specify max number of open files.

Only avaliable on Linux.
.TP
.B \-b \fIlocal_address\fP
Specify local address to bind.
.TP
.B \-u
Enable UDP relay.

TPROXY is required in redir mode. You may need root permission.
.TP
.B \-U
Enable UDP relay and disable TCP relay.
.TP
.B \-A
Enable onetime authentication.
.TP
.B \-v
Enable verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-h, --help
Print help message.

.SH EXAMPLE
\*(Re requires netfilter's NAT function. Here is an example:

.nf
    # Create new chain
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -N SHADOWSOCKS

    # Ignore your shadowsocks server's addresses
    # It's very IMPORTANT, just be careful.
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A SHADOWSOCKS -d 123.123.123.123 -j RETURN

    # Ignore LANs and any other addresses you'd like to bypass the proxy
    # See Wikipedia and RFC5735 for full list of reserved networks.
    # See ashi009/bestroutetb for a highly optimized CHN route list.
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A SHADOWSOCKS -d 0.0.0.0/8 -j RETURN
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A SHADOWSOCKS -d 10.0.0.0/8 -j RETURN
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A SHADOWSOCKS -d 127.0.0.0/8 -j RETURN
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A SHADOWSOCKS -d 169.254.0.0/16 -j RETURN
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A SHADOWSOCKS -d 172.16.0.0/12 -j RETURN
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A SHADOWSOCKS -d 192.168.0.0/16 -j RETURN
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A SHADOWSOCKS -d 224.0.0.0/4 -j RETURN
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A SHADOWSOCKS -d 240.0.0.0/4 -j RETURN

    # Anything else should be redirected to shadowsocks's local port
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A SHADOWSOCKS -p tcp -j REDIRECT --to-ports 12345

    # Add any UDP rules
    root@Wrt:~# ip rule add fwmark 0x01/0x01 table 100
    root@Wrt:~# ip route add local 0.0.0.0/0 dev lo table 100
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t mangle -A SHADOWSOCKS -p udp --dport 53 -j TPROXY --on-port 12345 --tproxy-mark 0x01/0x01

    # Apply the rules
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING -p tcp -j SHADOWSOCKS
    root@Wrt:~# iptables -t mangle -A PREROUTING -j SHADOWSOCKS

    # Start the shadowsocks-redir
    root@Wrt:~# ss-redir -u -c /etc/config/shadowsocks.json -f /var/run/shadowsocks.pid
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR \*(Lo (1),
.BR \*(Se (1),
.BR \*(Tu (1),
.BR \*(Ma (1),
.BR shadowsocks-libev (8),
.BR iptables (8),
/etc/shadowsocks-libev/config.json
.br
.SH AUTHOR
shadowsocks was created by clowwindy <clowwindy42@gmail.com> and
shadowsocks-libev was maintained by Max Lv <max.c.lv@gmail.com> and Linus Yang
<laokongzi@gmail.com>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Max Lv <max.c.lv@gmail.com>.
.PP
The manual pages were rearranged by hosiet <073plan@gmail.com>.
